# credit-risk-classification
## Module 12 Report

# Overview of the Analysis

In this challenge, we trained and evaluated a model based on loan risk using logistic regression to identify the creditworthiness of borrowers. Then we used a confusion matrix and classification report to assess the accuracy, precision, and recall of the model. Based on each individual and their features (e.g. loan size, borrower income, etc.), their loan status was predicted as either 0 (healthy) or 1 (high-risk). 

After the csv was read in, the 'y' (loan-status labels set) was separated from the 'X' (features). The data was then split into training and testing datasets by using 'train-test-split'. The 'X-test' data was then fit into a logistic regression model and then evaluated.

# Results

- Both the classification report and the confusion matrix yielded a highly accurate score of 99%.
- The average precision was described as much higher in the classification report (weighted average of 99%) compared to the confusion matrix (85%). 85% is not a very precise score.
- Finally, the recall was, again, higher in the classification report (weighted average of 99%) compared to the confusion matrix (91%). This is fairly high.
- The 0 values (healthy loan status) yielded very high scores across the board for accuracy, precision, and recall according to the classification report when compared to the 1 values (high-risk values). 

# Summary

The accuracy of the logistic regression model seemed to be very high (99%) according to both the classification report and the confusion matrix, so the model can be described as quite accurate. However, there were some inconsistencies between the two when it came to the precision and recall scores in which the classification report yielded much higher scores for both measures. However, as the confusion matrix had significantly lower scores (especially for precision), it can be safely concluded that the model was, in this instance, neither very precise nor sensitive (low recall). Furthermore, the model seemed to perform suspiciously well for the 0 values as shown by the classification report, which yielded a score of 100% for precision, which is very unlikely, especially when compared to the 85% score generated by the confusion matrix. Nevertheless, according to the classification report, the 0 values yielded much higher scores than the 1 values when assessed for precision, recall, and accuracy. This could mean that there aren't many individuals with a high-risk loan status being correctly predicted by this model. Therefore, I do not recommend the model and suggest looking at alternatives as just because the model seems to be accurate on average, there is a significant difference between the accuracy, precision, and recall of the predictions between the 0 and 1 values, as made evident by the classification report. The confusion matrix further confirms that, on average, the model is not very precise in its predictions.

# References
https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_ml_confusion_matrix.asp
